There's a question about, it looks like there's a number of ways that you can fetch data,
whether using useEffect, React Query, or TanStack Query.
They seem to share a lot of the same purposes.
What's the use case I would use TanStack Query over, say, useEffect?
That's a good question.
You can choose for yourself, right?
I've kind of shown you both ways because I wanted you to see.
This is a personal preference.
I'm going to say this is not a controversial opinion here, is that the industry tends to
just use React Query when it comes to making API requests on a regular basis.
This API is just a lot nicer.
It has built-in caching into it.
The hooks are super nice.
It has refetching built into it.
It has nice error handling, like all the stuff that you would have to kind of just reconstruct
yourself.
This is like, it's such an elegant tool, in my opinion, and honestly, one of the tools
I hold up is a prime example of really good developer experiences because you can use
React Query however you want.
It really doesn't enforce an opinion too much on you.
It's just a very useful tool that's generally applicable to almost every problem when it
comes to React components making API requests.
That's why I don't really feel too much controversy in saying, like, just always use this if you're
using an API, right?
If you want to refetch every single time, you just set the stale time to zero and all
of a sudden, okay, now it's going to refetch it every single time, right?
You can't remember if it's zero or infinity.
I think what I did here is I think I made it always refetch or something like that.
Maybe it's one.
There might even be like no cache or something like that.
You'd have to go look at what the actual, here it is.
We'll use enabled here in just a second.
You can tell it how many pages that you want it to hold max.
There's a bunch of stuff.
Anyway, maybe just make this one.
Anyway, so when would I use use effect?
Use effect still has its place.
If I had to talk to local storage or something like that, I might find a library for that.
I might just use an effect for that.
A good example is like, okay, I loaded a component and I want to fire off analytics events.
I'd use an effect for that, yeah.
It still has its use cases.
With remote state management, is Tantanstack a better solution or is something like ZooStan
or Redux handle that better?
I'm going to say that they're different tools for different jobs.
You can use ZooStan or something like that with React Query.
You certainly can use Redux as a cache.
There's no reason that you couldn't, but they serve different purposes.
The Tantanstack store is more directly competing with ZooStan and all of those.
Like I said, I tend not to use any state management libraries anymore, but if I was building something
like Figma, very big complicated browser app that's going to have a lot of browser-based
data that's going to be shared across lots of teams, then I would use something like
ZooStan to coordinate across a massive big app that has lots of app-level data.
I'm not the person who's going to use it on a very small app, but on an enormous app,
I think at that scale and with that many people looking at the app, it makes more sense to
me.
Katie Cromman uses ZooStan in our React Native courses that we just released, so if you're
interested in ZooStan or you want to learn more about it.
Yeah, I would say with an iOS app where you have many pages and it's all being stored
in the same thing with React Native, that makes a lot of sense to me.
Do you have any opinions about putting query code inside a custom hook?
That's a good question.
Why wouldn't I put this one in a custom hook?
Because I don't think that makes it any clearer what this is doing, and I'm not going to write
tests for React query.
Tanner Lindley and the React or the TanStack team test it plenty more than I ever want
to test it.
I don't want to test my libraries.
I assume my libraries test themselves.
If I put this into a custom hook, there'd be nothing interesting to test about it, so
I just wouldn't.
However, if I had seven requests that were firing off in serial and I wanted to make
sure that the right things were being called in the right order, yeah, I'd make that a
custom hook.
But for just one request, no, I'm okay just putting this directly in the component.
I just chose these two because almost every app that you write has API requests.
Almost every app you write has routing needs, or at least very frequently.
So I chose these two, but there's other ones out there like virtual tables, those can be
super useful, form libraries, all sorts of stuff like that.
There's lots of things to talk about with CSS, and I decided to not talk too much about
CSS in the intro to this.
One, it's a pretty fractured ecosystem, so there's not an obvious one to teach you, like
this is the answer.
Once you understand React, layering in CSS is not super hard.
I'll just throw in that I'm of the opinion typically, let's say if I have this pizza
of the day, I'll just come in here and say pizza of the day dot CSS, and this will just
be normal, not very interesting CSS, and then here in pizza of the day dot JSX, I'll just
say import dot slash pizza of the day dot CSS.
That's how I like to do it, it keeps it pretty simple, I'm just writing direct CSS, and actually
if you really want to get into it, what I'll do is I'll actually have a directory, pizza
of the day directory, I'll have the component in there, I'll have the CSS in there, I'll
have all the tests for it in there.
My favorite part about that pattern is, let's say we've decided later that we're going to
pizza of the month, and now we need a whole new component with new tests and new CSS.
If you don't do it this way, you have to go hunt for all the files and delete them individually,
or even worse and even more likely is that you just don't and you leave dead code in
your code base.
If you structure it like that where it's just a directory of everything's kind of self-contained
directory, you just delete the whole directory and you're just assured that all of the related
code goes with it.
I wasn't intending to talk about CSS or anything like that, but that's how I do handle it,
nine times out of ten.
I can hear chat now furiously just banging away, it's like, what about Tailwind?
And it's like, oh, okay.
I understand Tailwind, I've taught Tailwind as part of Intermediate, so if you want to
see how I use Tailwind, it's Intermediate React V5, there's a section on Tailwind.
I've kind of come back around to it as like, I don't really like using it.
I kind of like writing CSS, but I don't judge those that do.
I don't have any strong opinion of like I don't like the class names or anything like
that.
I am just personally have a bit of Stockholm Syndrome around CSS and I've been doing it
for so long, but now I kind of like it, and so I'm just going to keep doing that.
But if I hadn't had so many years of fighting floats, then I probably would be more drawn
to something like Tailwind, right?
So totally valid, if you use it in your code base, I'm not upset, I will happily contribute
to a Tailwind code base, it's just not what I'm going to choose personally.
And I will say, I think it's probably the most common thing with React now is to write
Tailwind.
That's just a feeling, I'm not sure if that's actually true, but certainly I see that being
very common.